Gretta Mae
Ferguson
Data Scientist   |   Product Manager   |   Business Analyst
grettamaeferguson@gmail.com
256-710-3729
Seattle, WA, willing to relocate

Summary
Experienced business analyst and data scientist, motivated to help turn data into insights and insights into action. Has over 5 years of direct professional experience in addition to 5 years building these skills in academia. Is curiosity driven and strategically minded.

Education
Metis Data Science Bootcamp 2018 - 2018
Pomona College 2010 - 2013
Bachelors in Mathematics
Bachelors in Physics
Davidson College 2008 - 2010

Employment
McKinsey and Company
Senior Analyst
Atlanta - New York - Seattle
August 2014 to July 2018
* Collaborated on hypothesis-driven, iterative product development of "Portfolio Navigator", a suite of business intelligence dashboards that help users to segment customers, price products, identify opportunities, and develop business strategy. Grew “Portfolio Navigator” subscription revenue 75% YoY to ~2M in annual revenue.
* Led systems design for multiple projects, establishing data collection processes via SFTP and web scraping as well as designing and optimizing several dozen SQL databases that analyze over 1 billion rows of raw data. Wrote technical business requirements for data engineering team and audited SQL code logic to improve data quality and processing efficiency.
* Managed monthly sprints with team of 6 to deliver monthly product updates. Created multi-year product roadmaps, driving consensus with key business partners across 20+ internal and external teams on data inputs, modeling methodology, and UX design.
* Provided strategic recommendations as management consultant on numerous engagements. Recommended P&L opportunities by analyzing footprint optimization, vendor pricing strategy, product requirements, survey interpretation, B2B negotiation tactics and creative financing. 

Med Plis Inc
Business Analyst
Florence AL
June 2013 - July 2014
* Compiled data from various sources (like patient records, business finances, payroll, etc.) and extracted information to advise management on financial optimization efforts. 
* Drafted the budget for a comprehensive ((radio, print, and online) advertising campaign. 
* Launched Google AdWords and improved search visibility of the company website.

Skills
Algorithms and Statistics
Python (incl. SKLearn, pandas, etc)
R
Database Management
SQL 
NoSQL (MangoDB)
Data Visualization
Tableau
MatPlotLib
AltAir
Rapid web app development
Flask
JavaScript
HTML/CSS

Awards
Author on Peer Reviewed Publication in Polymers Journal
June 2015
Title: Comparative Indoor and Outdoor Degradation of Organic Photovoltaic Cells via Inter-laboratory Collaboration
Winner of Roland R Tileston Memorial Prize in Physics
May 2011
Established in 1952 in honor of physics professor R.R. Tileston, this prize is awarded to an outstanding student in physics whose record in the department is judged most promising.

Volunteering
Puget Sound Programming Python  (PuPPy)
Charity Dinner Gala Chair
Seattle
2018